@section Outputs
In a dimension definition, you can specify a set of outputs to
visualize the solutions on that dimension. The outputs must be taken from
the predefined @emph{output library},
@cindex output library.
of the XDK. Using outputs proceeds in two steps:
@enumerate
@item choose outputs
@item use outputs 
@end enumerate

@subsection Choosing outputs
First, you @emph{choose}
@cindex choose outputs
the subset of @emph{chosen outputs}
@cindex chosen outputs
from the outputs available in the output library. All of these outputs
must be able to visualize the solution on the currently defined
dimension.

In the UL, you choose an output as follows:
@example
output <constant>
@end example
where the @code{<constant>} is an output identifier.

@subsection Using outputs
Then, you @emph{use}
@cindex use
@cindex use outputs
a subset of the chosen outputs (the @emph{used outputs})
@cindex used outputs
which are actually utilized by the XDK to visualize the individual
solutions of a solution for that dimension.

In the UL, you use an output as follows:
@example
useoutput <constant>
@end example
where the @code{<constant>} is an output identifier.

This rather artificial difference between choosing and using outputs
has its roots in the GUI of the XDK. Here, all the chosen outputs are
available in the @code{Outputs} menu (so that you can still use them
on demand), but only the used outputs are actually used for
visualizing solutions.

@subsection Example
In our example grammar file, only the output @code{output.pretty} is
chosen on both the id and the lp dimension (but not used):

@example
  %% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  %% use and choose outputs
  output "output.pretty"
@end example

The multi-dimensional outputs @code{output.dags1} and
@code{output.latexs1} are used on the lex dimension, but only the
former is chosen:

@example
  %% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
  %% use and choose outputs
  output "output.dags1"
  output "output.latexs1"
  useoutput "output.dags1"
@end example
