@chapter Exceptions
This section describes the standard format for exceptions. We strongly
encourage all developers to adhere to this format, for two main
reasons:
@itemize @bullet
@item all executables pertaining to the XDK expect this format
(e.g. the GUI expects it to correctly create the appropriate exception
windows)
@item consistency
@end itemize

A typical exception from the XDK looks is a record with label
@code{error1}, and features @code{'functor'}, @code{'proc'},
@code{info}, @code{msg}, @code{coord} and @code{file}. The latter
three features are obligatory, the others optional. The obligatory
features are always printed out by the error handling procedures of
the executables pertaining to the XDK. The other features are
typically only to be seen when the debug mode is on.

Here is an example exception:

@example
error1('functor':'Compiler/TypeCollector.ozf'
       'proc':'CollectTypes1'
       info:o(AttrsType 'dimension') 
       msg:'Attributes type must be a record.'
       coord:AttrsCoord
       file:AttrsFile)
@end example

The value of @code{'functor'} must be an atom representing
the path to the functor in which the exception was raised.

The value of @code{'proc'} must be an atom representing the name of
the procedure in which the exception was raised.

The value of @code{info} is a tuple with label @code{o} with arbitrary
projections providing extra information (in addition to the message,
see below) for debugging purposes.

The value of @code{msg} is a virtual string representing the message
to be printed by the error handling procedures.

The value of @code{coord} is either the atom @code{noCoord}, a pair
@code{I1#I2} of two integers @code{I1} and @code{I2}, or just an
integer @code{I}, denoting the range of lines or just the line of an
error which occurred when compiling a grammar file.

The value of @code{file} is either the atom @code{noFile}, or an atom
@code{A} denoting the filename of the grammar file where the error
occurred.
