@chapter Oracles
Oracles can be used to guide the search for solutions of the XDK
solver.  They are stand-alone programs acting as a server to be asked
by a client (= the XDK solver) to choose one among a number of
possibilities for further search.

Oracles and the XDK solver communicate over a socket. The socket port
to be used can be set upon start of the oracle, and must be the same
as set for the XDK solver.

This is work in progress. At the moment, we have only one oracle viz.
the @emph{manual oracle} which allows the user to determine the path
through the search tree.

@menu
* ManualOracle::       Manual Oracle
@end menu

@c ************************************************************

@node ManualOracle, , , Oracles
@section Manual Oracle
The manual oracle co-operates with the IOzSeF search visualization
tool. Upon solving an input sentence, the IOzSeF Tree Viewer pops up,
but does not yet enumerate any solution. Instead, it shows only a grey
triangle. With @code{Search->Next Solution} (or by simply pressing
@code{n}), the next solution is explored. If there is a choice point,
then the manual oracle displays a window showing the partially solved
multigraph up until the choicepoint. By clicking the buttons
@code{choice 1} and @code{choice 2} with the right mouse button, the
manual oracle displays the edges which would be added if the left or
the right alternative would be chosen. The choices can then be taken
by clicking the corresponding buttons with the left mouse button.

The manual oracle can be started using the executable 
@code{ManualOracleServer.exe}
in @code{Oracles/ManualOracle}. The @code{--port}-option makes the 
oracle use a port other than the default port 4711. E.g.:
@example
ManualOracleServer.exe --port=42
@end example
makes the oracle use port 42. This can be also be shortened to:
@example
ManualOracleServer.exe -p 42
@end example
