@section Output record
The @emph{output record} is the result of preparing the solution for
the individual output functors. A solution is a list of node
records. The output record is defined as follows:

@example
o(usedDIDAs: DIDAs
  graphUsedDIDAs: DIDAs
  nodes: SLs
  nodeILs: ILs
  nodeOLs: OLs
  nodeOLAbbrs: OLAbbrs
  index2Pos: I2I
  printProc: PrintProc
  edges: EdgesRec)
@end example

The value of the @code{usedDIDAs} feature is a list of dimension
identifiers (@code{DIDAs}) which are the used dimensions.

The value of the @code{usedGraphDIDAs} feature is a list of dimension
identifiers (@code{DIDAs}) which are the used @emph{graph dimensions}.
@cindex graph dimensions
A graph dimension is a dimension on which the either
@code{principle.graph} or @code{principle.graph1} is used. This is
useful to distinguish graph dimensions (which can e.g. be visualized
using @code{output.dag}) from special dimensions like @code{lex}
(purpose: assign a word form to a lexical entry) and @code{multi}
(purpose: use multi-dimensional principles) which need not be 
visualized like this.

The value of the @code{nodes} feature is the Solver Language (SL)
version of the solution: a list of node records.

The value of the @code{nodeILs} feature is the Intermediate Language
(IL) version of the solution.

The value of the @code{nodeOLs} feature is the Output Language (OL)
version of the solution.

The value of the @code{nodeOLAbbrs} feature is the abbreviated Output
Language (OL) version of the solution (here: top values are
abbreviated with @code{top} and bottom values with @code{bot}, and
features denoting @code{top} are left out from records and valencies).

The value of the @code{index2Pos} feature@footnote{This feature only
makes sense if you use the order principle.}  is a function from node
indices (@code{I}) to the corresponding node positions (@code{I}).

The value of the @code{printProc} feature is a function from anything
to nothing (@code{X -> U}), used for printing.

indices (@code{I}) to the corresponding node positions (@code{I}).

The value of the @code{edges} feature@footnote{This feature only makes
sense for dimensions using the graph principle (or the graph1
principle).}  is the @emph{edges record}
@cindex edges record
@code{EdgesRec}:
@example
o(edges: DIDAEdgesRec
  ledges: DIDALEdgesRec
  lusedges: DIDALUSEdgesRec
  dedges: DIDADEdgesRec
  ldedges: DIDALDEdgesRec
  lusdedges: DIDALUSDEdgesRec)
@end example

The values of the features of the edges record are defined as follows:
@itemize @bullet
@item @code{DIDAEdgesRec}: Maps dimension identifier
@code{DIDA} to the set of determined edges (@code{Edges}) on
@code{DIDA}.  An edge is an Oz record @code{edge(I1 I2)} representing an
edge from the node with index @code{I1} to the node with index
@code{I2}. The edge label of the edge need not be determined.
@item @code{DIDALEdgesRec}: Maps dimension identifier @code{DIDA}
to the set of determined labeled edges (@code{LEdges}) on @code{DIDA}.
A labeled edge is an Oz record @code{edge(I1 I2 LA)} representing an
edge from the node with index @code{I1} to the node with index @code{I2}
labeled @code{LA}. The edge label of the edge must be determined.
@item @code{DIDALUSEdgesRec}: Maps dimension identifier
@code{DIDA} to the set of determined edges (@code{LUSEdges}) on
@code{DIDA}. Here, the edge label of the edge must still be undetermined.
@item @code{DIDADEdgesRec}: Maps dimension identifier
@code{DIDA} to the set of @emph{unlabeled dominance edges}
@cindex unlabeled dominance edge
@cindex dominance edge
(@code{DEdges}) on @code{DIDA}. An unlabeled dominance edge is an Oz
record @code{dom(I1 I2)} representing a unlabeled dominance edge from
the node with index @code{I1} to the node with index @code{I2}. 
An unlabeled dominance edge holds between nodes @math{v} and
@math{v'} if:
@enumerate
@item @math{v'} is in the set of nodes below @math{v}
@item the set of mothers of @math{v'} is not yet determined
@item @math{v'} is not in the set of nodes below any node below @math{v}
@end enumerate
@item @code{DIDALDEdgesRec}: Maps dimension identifier
@code{DIDA} to the set of @emph{labeled dominance edges}
@cindex labeled dominance edge
@cindex dominance edge
(@code{LDEdges}) on @code{DIDA}. A labeled dominance edge is an Oz
record @code{dom(I1 I2 LA)} representing a labeled dominance edge from
the node with index @code{I1} to the node with index @code{I2} labeled
@code{LA}.  A labeled dominance edge exists between @code{I1} and @code{I2}
if:
@enumerate
@item @math{v'} is in the set of nodes equal or below the daughters of
@math{v} labeled with @math{l}
@item the set of mothers of @math{v'} is not yet determined
@item @math{v'} is not in the set of nodes below any node below @math{v}
@end enumerate
@item @code{DIDALUSDEdgesRec}: Maps dimension identifier
@code{DIDA} to the set of @emph{unlabeled dominance edges}
@cindex unlabeled dominance edge
@cindex dominance edge
(@code{LUSDEdges}) on @code{DIDA}. Here, the edge label of the
dominance edge must still be undetermined.
@end itemize
