@section xdkconv
This section is about the standalone grammar file converter of the XDK
(@code{xdkconv}). The grammar file converter takes a source grammar
file and converts it into a destination grammar file.  The grammar
file language into which the destination grammar file is converted
depends on its suffix.

The source grammar file can be one of the following:
@itemize @bullet
@item UL file (suffix: @code{ul})
@item XML file (suffix: @code{xml})
@item IL pickle (suffix: @code{ilp})
@item IL functor@footnote{The functor must export the IL grammar under the
key @code{grammar}.} (suffix: @code{ozf})
@end itemize

And the destination grammar file can be one of the following:
@itemize @bullet
@item UL file (suffix: @code{ul})
@item XML file (suffix: @code{xml})
@item IL pickle (suffix: @code{ilp})
@end itemize

@subsection Invocation
These are the commandline arguments of @code{xdkconv}:

@itemize @bullet
@item @code{--help} or @code{--nohelp} (short version: @code{-h}): Display an
overview of the commandline arguments. Default: @code{--nohelp}.
@item @code{--grammar} (@code{-g}): Select the source grammar file.
Default: "".
@item @code{--output} (@code{-o}): Select the destination grammar file.
Default: "".
@item @code{--debug} or @code{--nodebug} (@code{-d}): Switch on the debug mode. 
Default: @code{nodebug}.
@end itemize

@subsection Example

Here is an example. Assume you would like to convert the source grammar
file @code{Grammars/Diplom.ul}, which is written in the @emph{User
Language (UL)}
@cindex User Language
@cindex UL
into the destination grammar file @code{Grammars/Diplom.xml} in the
@emph{XML language}. Here is how you do this with @code{xdkconv}:

@example
xdkconv.exe -g Grammars/Diplom.ul -o Grammars/Diplom.xml
@end example

@code{xdkconv} reads the UL grammar @code{Grammars/Diplom.ul}, and saves
the corresponding XML language grammar @code{Grammars/Diplom.xml}.
