@section xdks
This section is about the standalone solver of the XDK
(@code{xdks}). It outputs solving statistics in XML format (DTD:
@code{Extras/statistics.dtd}).  Unix users can use the shell script
@code{diffnotime} to compare two solving statistics without taking the
solving time into account (e.g. to spot the differences with respect
to solutions, choices and failures).

@subsection Invocation
These are the commandline arguments of @code{xdks}:

@itemize @bullet
@item @code{--help} or @code{--nohelp} (short version: @code{-h}): Display an
overview of the commandline arguments. Default: @code{--nohelp}.
@item @code{--grammars} (@code{-g}): Select the list of
grammar files which shall be compiled (and then merged). Default: no files.
@item @code{--examples} (@code{-e}): Select the examples
file. Default: @code{""}.
@item @code{--input} (@code{-i}): Supply a sentence
(which is then appended to the examples). Default: @code{""}.
@item @code{--search first}, @code{--search all},
@code{--search print} or @code{--search flatzinc} (@code{-s first},
@code{-s all}, @code{-s print} or @code{-s flatzinc}): Specify whether
the solver shall search only for the first solution, enumerate all
solutions or print the propagators to a file.  Default: @code{--search
all}.
@item @code{--solutions <Int>} (@code{-u}): Set maximum number of solutions to
@code{<Int>}. Default: @code{1000}.
@item @code{--failures <Int>} (@code{-u}): Set maximum number of failures to
@code{<Int>}. Default: @code{1000}.
@item @code{--reco <Int>} (@code{-c}): Set maximum recomputation distance to
@code{<Int>}. Default: @code{5}.
@item @code{--profile} or @code{--noprofile} (@code{-p}): Toggle profiling
Default: @code{noprofile}.
@item @code{--outputs} or @code{--nooutputs} (@code{-o}): Open all used outputs.
Default: @code{nooutputs}.
@item @code{--debug} or @code{--nodebug} (@code{-d}): Switch on the debug mode. 
Default: @code{nodebug}.
@end itemize
