@section Node record
The @emph{node record}
@cindex node record
is the internal representation of a node in the XDK solver. Each node
corresponds to a word in the input.

The node record is defined as follows:

@example
o(word: A
  index: I
  nodeSet: M
  entryIndex: I
  <dimension identifier 1>: o(attrs: SL
                              entry: SL
                              model: SL)
  @dots{}
  <dimension identifier n>: o(attrs: SL
                              entry: SL
                              model: SL))
@end example

The value of the @code{word} feature is an Oz atom representing the word.

The value of the @code{index} feature is an Oz integer representing
the unique @emph{node index}
@cindex node index
of the node.

The value of the @code{nodeSet} feature is an Oz finite set of integers
representing the set of node indices of all nodes.

The value of the @code{entryIndex} feature is the an Oz integer
representing the @emph{entry index}
@cindex entry index
of the node.  Notice that the entry index is different from the node
index: Each word corresponds to a set of lexical entries, and each of
these has an entry index. The entry index of the node is the index of
the selected lexical entry for the node.

The next features introduce sub records for the used dimensions
@code{<dimension identifier i>} (@code{1<=i<=n}). Each of these sub
records has the features @code{attrs}, @code{entry} and @code{model}.
The value of the @code{attrs} feature is the attributes record of the
node. The value of the @code{entry} feature is the entry record of the
node. The value of the @code{model} feature is the model record of the
node.
